Tips for buying
When buying fresh mushrooms, chose ones that are firm, dry, and unbruised. Avoid mushrooms that appear slimy or withered.

Store mushrooms in the refrigerator. A person should not wash or trim them until it is time to cook with them.

Tips for serving
The Environmental Working Group, which assesses foods for their pesticide contents, placed mushrooms that grow in the U.S. in its 2019 list of the 15 cleanest foods, referring to relatively low traces of pesticides.

However, people should still wash and clean them carefully before using them to remove any soil and grit. If necessary, trim the ends of the stalks. You can use mushrooms whole, sliced, or diced.

To incorporate more mushrooms into the diet, try:

sauteing any type of mushroom with onions for a quick, tasty side dish
adding mushrooms to stir-fries
topping a salad with raw, sliced cremini or white mushrooms
stuffing and baking portobello mushrooms
adding sliced mushrooms to omelets, breakfast scrambles, pizzas, and quiches
sauteing shiitake mushrooms in olive oil or broth for a healthful side dish
removing the stems of portobello mushrooms, marinating the caps in a mixture of olive oil, onion, garlic, and vinegar for 1 hour, then grilling them for 10 minutes
adding grilled portobello mushrooms to sandwiches or wraps
To prepare dried mushrooms, leave them in water for several hours until they are soft.

Possible health risks
Wild mushrooms can make a tasty dish, but the toxins in some mushrooms can trigger fatal health issues. Some wild mushrooms also contain high levels of heavy metals and other harmful chemicals.

To avoid these dangers, only consume mushrooms from a reliable source.

Takeaway
Mushrooms can be a healthful addition to a varied diet. They are easy to prepare and provide a range of nutrients.

People should only eat mushrooms from a reliable source, as some types are toxic.

 A mushroom or toadstool is the fleshy, spore-bearing fruiting body of a fungus, typically produced above ground, on soil, or on its food source.
                    Mushrooms are one of the best sources of selenium, which helps your body make antioxidants that can reduce cell damage. Mushrooms are a good source of vitamins B2, B3, B5 and B9, also known as folate. B vitamins are essential for cell growth and formation.
                    Mushrooms are edible fungus. They provide a range of antioxidants and other nutrients that may contribute to heart health and protect the body from cancer, among other benefits. The nutritional profile will depend on the type of mushroom.
                    Beyond the diet, mushrooms feature in some types of traditional medicineTrusted Source.
                     A mushroom is the reproductive structure produced by some fungi. It is somewhat like the fruit of a plant, except that the "seeds" it produces are in fact millions of microscopic spores that form in the gills or pores underneath the mushroom's cap. The spores blow away into the wind, or are spread by other means, such as animal feeding. If they land on a suitable substrate (such as wood or soil) spores will germinate to form a network of microscopic rooting threads (mycelium) which penetrate into their new food source. Unlike the mushroom, which pops up then passes away quickly, the mycelium persists, often for many years, extracting nutrients and sending up its annual crop of mushrooms.
Slippery Jack - Suillus luteus (XX). This mushroom has pores instead of gills under its
cap
Slippery Jack - Suillus luteus (XX). This
mushroom
has pores instead of gills under its cap
King boletus - Boletus edulis (X)
King boletus - boletus edulis (X)
Mushrooms are fungi. They belong in a kingdom of their own, separate from plants and animals. Fungi differ from plants and animals in the way they obtain their nutrients. Generally, plants make their food using the sun's energy (photosynthesis), while animals eat, then internally digest, their food. Fungi do neither: their mycelium grows into or around the food source, secretes enzymes that digest the food externally, and the mycelium then absorbs the digested nutrients. There are exceptions to these generalizations; some organisms are placed into their respective kingdoms based on characteristics other than their feeding habits.	
Cortinarius violaceus (XX)- a
striking purple mushroom

Cortinarius violaceus (XX)- a striking purple mushroom
Mushrooms are a fungus, but that hasn’t deterred most Americans from adding them to meals. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the average American eats approximately three pounds of mushrooms a year. And now there’s even more reason to work mushrooms into your diet.

Mushrooms bring a savory flavor to meals without adding much fat, calories or sodium. But the health benefits don’t stop there. Researchers continue to uncover how mushrooms can ward off chronic disease and improve your everyday health. Read on to discover seven ways that mushrooms can benefit your health:

1. Decrease the risk of cancer
A review of 17 cancer studies from 1966 to 2020 shows that eating just 18 grams of mushrooms (equal to about a 1/8-cup or two medium mushrooms) a day may lower your risk of cancer by as much as 45%. Mushrooms are a powerful source of ergothioneine, an amino acid and antioxidant that prevents or slows cellular damage.

Some mushroom varieties (such as shiitake, oyster, maitake and king oyster) have higher amounts of ergothioneine. But researchers found that incorporating any variety of mushrooms into your daily diet will lower your risk of cancer.

2. Lower sodium intake
Sodium and high blood pressure often go hand in hand. Sodium causes the body to retain excess fluid, which can increase blood pressure. To decrease your sodium intake, consider adding mushrooms to your meals.

Mushrooms are naturally low in sodium – an entire cup of white button mushrooms has just five milligrams of sodium. They offer savory flavor that reduces the need for added salt to keep your blood pressure low. A study from the Culinary Institute of American and UC Davis shows that swapping half of the meat for mushrooms in a traditional ground beef recipe can maintain flavor while reducing sodium intake by 25%.

3. Promote lower cholesterol
Mushrooms make an excellent substitute for red meat while minimizing calories, fat and cholesterol. Research shows that shiitake mushrooms, in particular, help to keep cholesterol levels low. They contain compounds that inhibit the production of cholesterol, block cholesterol from being absorbed and lower the overall amount of cholesterol in your blood.

4. Protect brain health
Researchers continue to study the effects of eating mushrooms on mild cognitive impairment (MCI). MCI causes memory and language difficulties and is often a precursor to Alzheimer’s disease.

In a study in Singapore, participants who ate more than two cups of mushrooms a week had a 50% lower risk of developing MCI. Even those who ate only one cup saw some benefit. The mushrooms eaten by participants included golden, oyster, shiitake and white button mushrooms.

5. Provide a source of vitamin D
Vitamin D helps your body absorb calcium to maintain and build strong bones. Many people rely on supplements or sunshine to get vitamin D, but if you’re looking to get this nutrient through your diet, mushrooms may be the answer. They are the only type of produce that is a source of vitamin D.

Like humans, certain mushrooms exposed to UV light or sunlight can increase their vitamin D amounts. White button, portabella and cremini mushrooms provide the most vitamin D after exposure to UV light or sunlight. To get the recommended daily amount, slice three mushrooms (or one portabella), expose them to sunlight for at least 15 minutes and enjoy. Eating a little more than one cup of maitake mushrooms achieves the same goal without the need for sun exposure.

6. Stimulate a healthier gut
The microbiome in your gut is home to organisms and bacteria that play a large role in your health and mood. One way to keep your gut healthy is to stimulate the growth of healthy bacteria in that space with the use of prebiotics, such as mushrooms.

Research shows that mushroom polysaccharides, their most abundant carbohydrate, stimulate the growth of healthy bacteria. While many foods break down with stomach acid, the polysaccharides found in mushrooms pass through the stomach unchanged and can reach the colon to encourage bacteria growth there.

7. Support a healthy immune system
Mushrooms contain macronutrients that support a healthy immune system. According to the Mushroom Council, your immune system will benefit from mushrooms whose nutrients include:

Selenium, which helps your body make antioxidant enzymes to prevent cell damage. Choose cremini or portabella mushrooms for the most benefit.
Vitamin D, which assists with cell growth, boosts immune function and reduces inflammation. Maitake mushrooms offer an easy way to add vitamin D to your diet.
Vitamin B6, which helps your body form red blood cells, proteins and DNA. Shiitake mushrooms are the best choice for vitamin B6.

Health benefits
The protein, vitamins, and minerals in mushrooms may be beneficial to a person’s health.
Mushrooms contain protein, vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants. These can have various health benefits.

For example, antioxidants are chemicals that help the body eliminate free radicals.

Free radicals are toxic byproducts of metabolism and other bodily processes. They can accumulate in the body, and if too many collect, oxidative stress can result. This can harm the body’s cells and may lead to various health conditions.

Among the antioxidant agents in mushrooms are:

selenium
vitamin C
choline
Learn more about antioxidants here.

Cancer
The antioxidant content in mushrooms may help preventTrusted Source lung, prostate, breast, and other types of cancer, according to the National Cancer Institute.

Some sources have suggested that selenium may help prevent cancer, but a Cochrane review, from 2017, found no evidence to confirm this.

Mushrooms also contain a small amount of vitamin D. There is some evidenceTrusted Source that vitamin D supplementation may help prevent or treat some kinds of cancer, though according to a 2018 report, the effect may vary from person to person.

Choline is another antioxidant in mushrooms. Some studiesTrusted Source have suggested that consuming choline can reduce the risk of some types of cancer, but at least one other studyTrusted Source has indicated that it may increase the risk of prostate cancer.

It is worth noting that consuming a nutrient as a supplement is not the same as consuming it in the diet.

What links are there between cancer and the diet? Find out here.

Diabetes
Dietary fiber may help manage a number of health conditions, including type 2 diabetes.

A 2018 reviewTrusted Source of meta-analyses concluded that people who eat a lot of fiber may have a lower risk of developing type 2 diabetes. For those who already have it, fiber may help reduce blood glucose levels.

A cup of sliced, raw mushrooms, weighing 70 gramsTrusted Source (g), provides almost 1 g of fiber.

The Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommend that adults consume 22.4–33.6 gTrusted Source of dietary fiber each day, depending on sex and age.

Mushrooms, beans, some vegetables, brown rice, and whole-grain foods can all contribute to a person’s daily requirement of fiber.

Try our 7-day diabetes meal plan.

Heart health
The fiber, potassium, and vitamin C in mushrooms may contribute to cardiovascular health.

Potassium can help regulate blood pressure, and this may decrease the risk of hypertension and cardiovascular disease. The American Heart AssociationTrusted Source (AHA) recommend reducing the intake of added salt in the diet and eating more foods that contain potassium.

According to current guidelinesTrusted Source, people should consume around 4,700 milligrams (mg) of potassium each day. Mushrooms appear on the AHA’s list of foods that provide potassium.

A 2016 studyTrusted Source concluded that people with a vitamin C deficiency were more likely to experience cardiovascular disease and suggested that consuming vitamin C may help prevent this illness. They did not find evidence that vitamin C supplements can reduce the risk of this type of disease.

There is some evidenceTrusted Source that consuming a type of fiber called beta-glucans may lower blood cholesterol levels. Beta-glucans occur in the cell walls of many types of mushrooms.

The stem of the shiitake mushrooms is a good sourceTrusted Source of beta-glucans.

The Mediterranean diet includes a range of plant foods, such as mushrooms. Find out more.

In pregnancy
Many women take folic acid, or folate, supplements during pregnancy to boost fetal health, but mushrooms can also provide folate.

A cup of whole, raw mushrooms contains 16.3 microgramsTrusted Source (mcg) of folate. Current guidelines recommend that adults consume 400 mcgTrusted Source of folate each day.

What foods should you eat and avoid during pregnancy? Find out here.

Other benefits
Mushrooms are rich in B vitamins, such as:

riboflavin, or B-2
folate, or B-9
thiamine, or B-1
pantothenic acid, or B-5
niacin, or B-3
B vitamins help the body get energy from food and form red blood cells. A number of B vitamins also appear to be important for a healthy brain.

The choline in mushrooms can help with muscle movement, learning, and memory. Choline assists in maintaining the structure of cellular membranes and plays a role in the transmission of nerve impulses.

Mushrooms are also the only vegan, nonfortified dietary source of vitamin D.

Several other minerals that may be difficult to obtain from a vegan diet — such as selenium, potassium, copper, iron, and phosphorus — are available in mushrooms.


Nutritional content
Many types of mushroom are edible, and most provide about the same quantities of the same nutrients per serving, regardless of their shape or size.

The table below shows how much of each nutrient a 96-g cup of whole, raw mushrooms provides. It also shows how much of each nutrient adults should consume every day, depending on their sex and age.

Nutrient	Amount of nutrientTrusted Source in 1 cup of mushrooms	Recommended daily intakeTrusted Source
Energy (calories)	21.1	1,600–3,200
Protein (g)	3.0	46–56
Carbohydrate (g)	3.1, including 1.9 g of sugar	130
Calcium (mg)	2.9	1,000–1,300
Iron (mg)	0.5	8–18
Magnesium (mg)	8.6	310–420
Phosphorus (mg)	82.6	700–1,250
Potassium (mg)	305	4,700
Sodium (mg)	4.8	2,300
Zinc (mg)	0.5	8–11
Copper (mcg)	305	890–900
Selenium (mcg)	8.9	55
Vitamin C (mg)	2.0	65–90
Vitamin D (mg)	0.2	15
Folate (mcg DFE)	16.3	400
Choline (mg)	16.6	400–550
Niacin (mg)	3.5	14–16
Mushrooms also contain a number of B vitamins, including thiamine, riboflavin, B-6, and B-12.